---
layout: post
title: Burnout.
location: Clermont-Fd Area, France
audio: false
---

_You won't be able to manage everything_, they said.
Guess what? They were right, I am not able to manage everything, and I will try
to explain why in this blog post.

First of all, I am a [PhD student](/2013-01-02-new-year-new-life-new-job.html),
not a full-time developer. My daily job is about reading papers, understanding
applications I am working on, and finding a way to automatically test them.
Part of my PhD allows me to give lectures (in web development, PHP, and
security). My research area doesn't allow me to work on Open Source projects
yet, so I don't do Open Source at work (neither at the University).

However, I am one of the 50 most active users on GitHub (wait, it is
[subjective](http://www.liferay.com/web/zeno.rocha/blog/-/blogs/i-m-the-50-most-active-contributor-on-github-so-what-)
though), I manage a few Open Source projects from weekend projects
(e.g. [TravisLight](https://github.com/willdurand/TravisLight)) to well-known
projects such as [Propel](https://github.com/propelorm/Propel) or
[capifony](https://github.com/everzet/capifony). I don't have any business
built on top of one of these projects, and I don't get paid for supporting any
of these projects. This is Open Source after all!

To be honest, I am really addicted to Open Source because I love working on new
projects, releasing new libraries that could be useful (like
[Geocoder](http://github.com/willdurand/Geocoder) I wrote for fun in one night),
and also maintaining existing projects. I learnt so much thanks to the Open
Source community, so I try to do my best to contribute back to this community.

But now, I feel really overbooked. I spend my free time replying to emails,
reviewing Pull Requests, and understanding issues. Free time means each free
time frame (in my car, while eating, etc.) here. And when I have enough time, I
can code. I write tests, I tag new versions, I ensure each project I manage
actually works. This is really time consuming because I need to loop over all my
projects, all the time. That's why I often release a bunch of new versions at
once. But I love that! Seriously.

Thing is, I sleep 4 to 6 hours a day, I never stop, I can reply to emails even
while partying with friends. It's not healthy. It happens because I have the same
workload I had when I was a developer (or a student). And, I did not talk about
Twitter, RSS feeds and so on, to stay up to date. It just cannot work. It is not
my job, and even if I am afraid to be egoist, I must admit I cannot manage
everything, and Open Source is not my priority anymore.

That is why I have to stop working on Open Source projects for a while. In the
next two weeks, I will try to be offline. And I will see if I can manage my time
in a better way. In the meanwhile, if you are interested in taking the lead on
one of my projects (or in contributing), please drop me an email, and you will
become my hero!
