---
layout: post
location: Clermont-Fd, France
tldr: true
title: "Level up"
image: /images/posts/2015/09/tailordev.webp
updates:
    - date: 2022-04-16
      content: I proofread this article and fixed some links.
---

What I have delayed as long as I could finally happened: deciding on what to do
professionally speaking. _Yup_, it is almost time for me to leave University
after nine years studying tons of different topics. Fortunately, I had the
opportunity to work beside my studies. Also, Open Source gave me some keys to
explore the real world by myself so I knew what a "job" was. I was just too
scared, and making choices has often been complicated to me.

Three years ago, I thought working for a big (read famous) company in the Bay
was what I wanted the most. I even did some interviews that all went well but
I never joined any company. I received various job proposals from all over the
world and some of them were really interesting but, again, I was not excited
enough. After three years of doing research, I knew that I wasn't a good fit
for Academia. Consequently, I decided not to pursue this path.

Over the years, I started to care more and more about humans, rights, and
ethical behaviours. I also wanted to become a better version of myself,
by [rethinking my life on the Internets][rethinking], reading more,
encouraging sharing and diversity with [Clermont'ech][clermontech],
[creating projects that target a wider audience than usual][rienacacher], and
even by [giving lectures](https://edu.williamdurand.fr/) and [talks](/talks/)
all over the world! I also "grew up" by [traveling a lot](/trips/) over the
last three years. Among all my trips, visiting my friend Igor who is currently
living in Berlin has been a revelation: I wanted to live and work in Berlin.

Earlier this year, I thought about working for a non-for-profit organization a
lot: I wanted to work abroad and for a good cause. Organizations such as
[EFF](https://www.eff.org/) and [RSF](https://en.rsf.org/) caught my attention.
I found positions in Berlin too. At that time, this seemed to be my best (and
also, only viable) plan. But then, @julienmaupetit came to me with a deal...

After several months thinking and discussing together, I am extremely happy to
announce that Julien and I are now partners at TailorDev. We want to develop
modern tools to **ease scientific collaboration and promote Open Science Data in
research**. The mission and its strong underlying values align perfectly with my
career goals &hearts; &hearts; &hearts;

Being the "CTO" of such a company comes with tons of  new exciting challenges and
that is why I chose this opportunity rather than working for an organization (not
saying there are no challenges in non-for-profit orgs here). Creating a startup
has always been something I wanted to try at least once and that's the right
moment I believe. As both of us are happy to run a _remote first_ company, moving
to Berlin will probably still be possible. This  also means that we will be able
to work with people from everywhere ;-)

Right now, we are working hard on _artich.io_, a **collaborative platform for
scientists**! Researchers reading this blog post, if you are not registered yet,
you should! We are former scientists in bioinformatics and software engineering,
we know how things work in Academia. That is why we put all our energy and skills
to offer you with efficient tools!

## TL;DR

I chose to start a new adventure at TailorDev. We build _artich.io_, a platform
for researchers.

[rethinking]: {% post_url 2015-01-16-rethinking-my-life-on-the-internets %}
[rienacacher]: {% post_url 2015-01-31-je-n-ai-rien-a-cacher %}
[clermontech]: https://www.clermontech.org/
