---
layout: post
title: "SIGCONT"
location: "Freiburg, Germany"
image: /images/posts/2019/12/sigcont.png
tweet_id: 1207945387488747522
---

I have never been really good at blogging consistently. The truth is: it’s hard,
for multiple reasons. I used to write without fear when I was younger, so what
happened?

Over the last five years, I learnt a lot about various topics and the more I was
learning, the more I was scared of actually not knowing anything. And this weird
feeling became much stronger after I had a _life incident_ 3.5 years ago. All
of this evolved into a form of [anxiety
disorder](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anxiety_disorder), which I tried to
fight by myself for 3 years. My last round-trip to an emergency service for
nothing convinced me to go to "see someone". My self-esteem has been decreasing
over time and this _thing_ did not help.

The only "benefit" at being _like that_ is that I never stop pushing my own
limits. The main drawbacks are that I am rarely proud of myself, never satisfied
and I hardly believe people's kind words. Such feelings do not mean that I am
unhappy or sad or even depressed. It rather means: I cannot even think about the
[Impostor syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome) because I
would fail to qualify as an impostor... That is a bit annoying but it is not the
end of the world.

For example, according to my manager and the outcome of the projects I have
worked on this year, I perform very well at my current company. Self-esteem does
not prevent one to get things done, take initiatives or create amazing things.
Yet, having little self-esteem forced me to put "according to" in the previous
sentence. And that is actually the problem.

When I want to blog, I usually stop because (1) I do not have anything
interesting to write, (2) I do not know enough or (3) no one cares about my
thoughts. When I was younger, I was probably too bold to think about all of this
but sharing my (sometimes imprecise) knowledge was still immensely positive.
That is why, as of now, I will try to write again.

I like [Julia Evans' blog](https://jvns.ca/) and the way she writes. It is "more
of a live-blogged exploration of a topic than an explanation of the topic" to
quote [someone else](https://danluu.com/programming-blogs/) describing her
style. I would like to write shorter articles more often. I would like to write
about how I work and also about all the (technical) topics I am interested in.
This _plan_ should likely address my concerns (1) and (2). As for (3), I have
been reading so many different blogs about all kinds of things that my upcoming
articles will eventually be useful to someone else, I believe.

Let's send a [SIGCONT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SIGCONT) to this blog!
